OSDOCS-8390 rosaworkshop.io deployment (#75629)
openshift/openshift-docs: cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-deploying-application/cloud-experts-deploying-application-deployment.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cloud-experts-deploying-application-deployment"]
= Tutorial: Deploying an application
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-deploying-application-deployment

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 23-JAN-2024

> == Deploying the OSToy application with Kubernetes

Reviewer: Do we need to set a `Prerequisites` section right before the deployment tutorial?
Examples:
1. AWS account setup if required
2. An available ROSA cluster deployed and available
3. Set env vars if needed etc..

Author: Makes sense, I will add the ROSA cluster one. I would assume your AWS account is already setup if you have a ROSA cluster deployed.

> You can deploy the OSToy application by creating and storing the images for the front-end and back-end microservice containers in an image repository. You can then create Kubernetes deployments to deploy the application. 

Reviewer: Can we provide a link to the `OSToy application`'s official docs? for initial/additional introduction :)

Reviewer: Looks good! I think it will be helpful if provided as an intro right before the actual tutorial

Author: Oh it already is! I forgot we had added the prereqs and overview as an assembly before this one:

https://75629--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-rosa/latest/cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-deploying-application/cloud-experts-deploying-application-prerequisites

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cloud-experts-deploying-application-deployment"]
= Tutorial: Deploying an application
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-deploying-application-deployment

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 23-JAN-2024

== Deploying the OSToy application with Kubernetes

One way to deploy the application is to have the images for the front-end and back-end microservice containers created  and stored in an image repository. You can then create Kubernetes deployments to deploy the application. The following procedures describe how to deploy the application. 

> === Retrieving the login command

Author: I think in this case it is not really needed

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: You might not need the `.Procedure` subheading since you already have a title right above it.

. If you are not logged in to the CLI, access your cluster with the web console

. Click the dropdown arrow next to your login name in the upper right and select *Copy Login Command*.
+
image::4-cli-login.png[CLI login screen]
+

> A new tab will open. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new tab opens. 
```

. Select your authentication method.

. Click *Display Token*.

. Copy the command under *Log in with this token*. 

. From your terminal, paste and run the copied command. If the login is successful, you will see the following confirmation message:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login --token=<your_token> --server=https://api.osd4-demo.abc1.p1.openshiftapps.com:6443
Logged into "https://api.myrosacluster.abcd.p1.openshiftapps.com:6443" as "rosa-user" using the token provided.

You don't have any projects. You can try to create a new project, by running

oc new-project <project name>
----

=== Creating a new project

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: I would suggest dividing this into two procedures, one for CLI and one for UI.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Using the CLI
```

> . Create a new project named `ostoy` in your cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> .. To create a new project with the default project name, run following command from the CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a new project named `ostoy` in your cluster by running following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
oc new-project ostoy
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Now using project "ostoy" on server "https://api.myrosacluster.abcd.p1.openshiftapps.com:6443".
----

> .. If you require a unique project name, run following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. *Optional*: Create a unique project name by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
 oc new-project ostoy-$(uuidgen | cut -d - -f 2 | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
----

> . Alternatively, you can create a new project with the web console:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Using the web console
```

> .. From the web console, click *Home* -> *Projects*. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. From the web console, click *Home* -> *Projects*. 
```

> .. On the *Projects* page, click create *Create Project*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. On the *Projects* page, click create *Create Project*.
```

+
image::4-createnewproj.png[The project creation screen]

> === Deploying the backend microservice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Deploying the back-end microservice
```

The microservice serves internal web requests and returns a JSON object containing the current hostname and a randomly generated color string.

> . From your terminal, deploy the microservice with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deploy the microservice by running the following command from your terminal:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-microservice-deployment.yaml
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-microservice-deployment.yaml
deployment.apps/ostoy-microservice created
service/ostoy-microservice-svc created
----

=== Deploying the front-end service

> The front-end deployment uses the Node.js front-end for the application along with a few other Kubernetes objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The front-end deployment uses the Node.js front-end for the application as well as additional Kubernetes objects.
```

> If you open the `ostoy-frontend-deployment.yaml`, you will see we are defining:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ostoy-frontend-deployment.yaml` file shows that front-end deployment defines the following features:
```

> - Persistent Volume Claim

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Persistent volume claim
```

> - Deployment Object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deployment object
```

- Service
- Route
- Configmaps
- Secrets

> . Deploy the application front-end and create all of the objects by entering the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deploy the application front-end and create all of the objects by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-frontend-deployment.yaml
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
persistentvolumeclaim/ostoy-pvc created
deployment.apps/ostoy-frontend created
service/ostoy-frontend-svc created
route.route.openshift.io/ostoy-route created
configmap/ostoy-configmap-env created
secret/ostoy-secret-env created
configmap/ostoy-configmap-files created
secret/ostoy-secret created
----
+

> You should see all objects created successfully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should see all objects created successfully.
```
Alternatively, you could just delete this sentence. With the "Example output" above, it isn't really necessary.

=== Getting the route

You must get the route to access the application.

> . Enter the following command to get the route to your application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Get the route to your application by running the following command:
```
